packages/parser-webpack-config/README.md, before:

# webpack config parser (`@sonarwhal/parser-webpack-config`)

The `webpack-config` parser allows the user to analyze the
webpack configuration in their projects.

To use it you will have to install it via `npm`:

```bash
npm install @sonarwhal/parser-webpack-config
```

Note: You can make `npm` install it as a `devDependency` using the `--save-dev`
parameter, or to install it globally, you can use the `-g` parameter. For
other options see
[`npm`'s documentation](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/install).

And then activate it via the [`.sonarwhalrc`][sonarwhalrc]
configuration file:

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "parsers": ["webpack-config"],
    "rules": {
        ...
    },
    ...
}
```

This parser detect if a webpack configuration file is present in your
project, checking the name of the file (`webpack.config.json`).

## Events emitted

This `parser` emits the following events:

* `parse::webpack-config::end`, of type `WebpackConfigParse`
  which contains the following information:

  * `resource`: the parsed resource.
  * `config`: an object with a valid configuration (`webpack.Configuration`).
  * `version`: the webpack version installed locally.

* `parse::webpack-config::error::configuration`, of type `WebpackConfigInvalidConfiguration`
  which contains the following information:

  * `resource`: the parsed resource.
  * `error`: the error emited parsing the configuration file.

* `parse::webpack-config::error::not-install`. This event is sent if the
  package `webpack` is not installed locally.
  This event doesn't containt anything else.

* `parse::webpack-config::error::not-found`. This event is sent if the
  parser doesn't find any configuration file at the end of the scan.
  This event doesn't containt anything else.

## Types

If you need to import any type defined in this parser, you need to import
them as follows:

```ts
import { TypeYouWantToUse } from '@sonarwhal/parser-webpack-config/dist/src/types';
```

<!-- Link labels: -->

[sonarwhalrc]: https://sonarwhal.com/docs/user-guide/further-configuration/sonarwhalrc-formats/

Commit message:

Breaking: Rename `rule` to `hint`

packages/parser-webpack-config/README.md, after:

# webpack config parser (`@hint/parser-webpack-config`)

The `webpack-config` parser allows the user to analyze the
webpack configuration in their projects.

To use it you will have to install it via `npm`:

```bash
npm install @hint/parser-webpack-config
```

Note: You can make `npm` install it as a `devDependency` using the `--save-dev`
parameter, or to install it globally, you can use the `-g` parameter. For
other options see
[`npm`'s documentation](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/install).

And then activate it via the [`.hintrc`][hintrc]
configuration file:

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "parsers": ["webpack-config"],
    "hints": {
        ...
    },
    ...
}
```

This parser detect if a webpack configuration file is present in your
project, checking the name of the file (`webpack.config.json`).

## Events emitted

This `parser` emits the following events:

* `parse::webpack-config::end`, of type `WebpackConfigParse`
  which contains the following information:

  * `resource`: the parsed resource.
  * `config`: an object with a valid configuration (`webpack.Configuration`).
  * `version`: the webpack version installed locally.

* `parse::webpack-config::error::configuration`, of type `WebpackConfigInvalidConfiguration`
  which contains the following information:

  * `resource`: the parsed resource.
  * `error`: the error emited parsing the configuration file.

* `parse::webpack-config::error::not-install`. This event is sent if the
  package `webpack` is not installed locally.
  This event doesn't containt anything else.

* `parse::webpack-config::error::not-found`. This event is sent if the
  parser doesn't find any configuration file at the end of the scan.
  This event doesn't containt anything else.

## Types

If you need to import any type defined in this parser, you need to import
them as follows:

```ts
import { TypeYouWantToUse } from '@hint/parser-webpack-config/dist/src/types';
```

<!-- Link labels: -->

[hintrc]: https://webhint.io/docs/user-guide/further-configuration/hintrc-formats/
