.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, before:

<!--

This template is for bug reports. If you are reporting a bug,
please continue on. If you are here for another reason, please
see below:

1. How to propose a new rule:
   TODO

2. How to request a change:
   TODO

3. If you have any questions, please stop by our chatroom:
   https://gitter.im/sonarwhal/Lobby

[!] Notes:

    * By leaving the following sections blank will make
      it difficult for us to troubleshoot and we may have
      to close the issue.

    * sonar adheres to the JS Foundation Code of Conduct
      https://js.foundation/community/code-of-conduct.

-->

Please tell us about your:

## Environment

<!-- You get the version numbers for the following by running:

 * sonar -v
 * node -v
 * npm -v

-->

* __`sonar` version:__
* __`Node.js` version:__
* __`npm` version:__

## `sonar` configuration

<details>
<summary>sonar's configuration</summary>

<!--
Note: The `sonar` configuration may be in a file named `.sonarrc`,
      or in  the `package.json` file under the `sonarConfig` propery.

Paste those configurations below:
-->

```js



```

</details>

## URL for which `sonar` failed

* __URL:__

## Output

Please include the raw output generated by `sonar`, or if possible,
the raw output from running `sonar` in debug mode: `sonar --debug <URL>`.

<details>
<summary>sonar's raw output</summary>

<!-- Paste the raw output below: -->

```text



```

</details>

Commit message:

Chore: Remove TODOs from `ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md`
For now add very short description on how users can propose
new features / request changes, the intent being that more
comprehensive information will be added in the future.

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, after:

<!--

This template is for bug reports. If you are reporting a bug,
please continue on. If you are here for another reason, please
see below:

1. Propose a new feature/change:

   Write a short description of your proposal with (if applicable)
   some examples of the expected behaviour.

2. If you have any questions, please stop by our chatroom:
   https://gitter.im/sonarwhal/Lobby

[!] Notes:

    * By leaving the following sections blank will make
      it difficult for us to troubleshoot and we may have
      to close the issue.

    * sonar adheres to the JS Foundation Code of Conduct
      https://js.foundation/community/code-of-conduct.

-->

Please tell us about your:

## Environment

<!-- You get the version numbers for the following by running:

 * sonar -v
 * node -v
 * npm -v

-->

* __`sonar` version:__
* __`Node.js` version:__
* __`npm` version:__

## `sonar` configuration

<details>
<summary>sonar's configuration</summary>

<!--
Note: The `sonar` configuration may be in a file named `.sonarrc`,
      or in  the `package.json` file under the `sonarConfig` propery.

Paste those configurations below:
-->

```js



```

</details>

## URL for which `sonar` failed

* __URL:__

## Output

Please include the raw output generated by `sonar`, or if possible,
the raw output from running `sonar` in debug mode: `sonar --debug <URL>`.

<details>
<summary>sonar's raw output</summary>

<!-- Paste the raw output below: -->

```text



```

</details>
