packages/rule-sri/README.md, before:

# Require scripts and styles to use subresource integrity (`@sonarwhal/rule-sri`)

`sri` warns about requesting scripts or stylesheets without using subresource
integrity.

## Why is this important?

Nowadays it's very common to use third party resources from CDNs or different
services (analytics, ads, etc.), and thus, increasing the risk surface of your
web site/app.

While there are techniques to verify the agent is talking with the right server
(TLS, HSTS, etc.), an attacker (or administrator) with access to the server can
manipulate the content with impunity.

> If you want to load a crypto miner on 1,000+ websites you don't attack 1,000+
websites, you attack the 1 website that they all load content from.
([Scott Helme][weak link])

Subresource integrity [is a standard][sri spec] that mitigates this by ensuring
that an exact representation of a resource, and only that representation, loads
and executes.

## What does the rule check?

This rule checks that a website uses correctly SRI, more especifically:

* All the downloaded resources by an `<script>` or `<link rel="stylesheet">`
  have an `integrity` attribute.
* [The `integrity` attribute has to be valid][sri format]. I.e.: it should
  contain something in the form of `sha(256|384|512)-HASH`, where `HASH` is
  the hashed value of the downlaoded body's response using the previously
  specified algorithm (`sha256`, `sha384`, or `sha512`).
* The minium cryptographic hash function used is [`sha384`][collisions].
  If multiple ones are provided, the highest one will be used to determine if
  the baseline is met.
* When using a cross-origin resource (e.g.: using a script hosted in a third
  party CDN), the `<script>` or `<link>` tag needs to have a valid
  [`crossorigin` attribute][crossorigin].
* The resource is served on a [secure context][secure context] (i.e.: HTTPS) to
  guarantee the HTML and resource haven't been tampered during the delivery.
* The hash from the `integrity` attribute needs to be the same as the one
  calculated using the response's body.
* If multiple hashes are provided, at least one needs to be valid.

### Examples that **trigger** the rule

Same-origin resource with no `integrity`:

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
```

Same-origin resource with hash function less secure than `sha384`:

```html
<script src="/script.js" integrity="sha256-validHashHere">
</script>
```

Cross-origin resource with no `crossorigin` attribute:

```html
<script src="https://example.com/example-framework.js"
  integrity="sha384-Li9vy3DqF8tnTXuiaAJuML3ky+er10rcgNR/VqsVpcw+ThHmYcwiB1pbOxEbzJr7">
</script>
```

Cross-origin resource with invalid `crossorigin` attribute:

```html
<script src="https://example.com/example-framework.js"
  integrity="sha384-Li9vy3DqF8tnTXuiaAJuML3ky+er10rcgNR/VqsVpcw+ThHmYcwiB1pbOxEbzJr7"
  crossorigin="invalid">
</script>
```

Cross-origin resource loaded over `HTTP`:

```html
<script src="http://example.com/example-framework.js"
  integrity="sha384-Li9vy3DqF8tnTXuiaAJuML3ky+er10rcgNR/VqsVpcw+ThHmYcwiB1pbOxEbzJr7"
  crossorigin="invalid">
</script>
```

### Examples that **pass** the rule

Same-origin resource with `sha384` or better:

```html
<script src="/script.js" integrity="sha384-validHashHere">
</script>
```

Same-origin resource with multiple hashes and `sha384` is one of them:

```html
<script src="/script.js"
  integrity="sha256-validHashHere
             sha384-validHashHere">
</script>
```

Cross-origin resource with valid `crossorigin` attribute:

```html
<script src="https://example.com/example-framework.js"
  integrity="sha384-Li9vy3DqF8tnTXuiaAJuML3ky+er10rcgNR/VqsVpcw+ThHmYcwiB1pbOxEbzJr7"
  crossorigin="anonymous">
</script>
```

## Can the rule be configured?

Yes, by default the baseline algorithm is `sha384` but you can
change it to `sha256`, or `sha512` by specifying that in the
[`.sonarwhalrc`][sonarwhalrc] file:

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "rules": {
        "sri": ["warning", {
            "baseline": "sha512"
        }],
        ...
    },
    ...
}
```

The above will validate that the `integrity` of all scripts and styles use
`sha512`.

## Further Reading

* [Using Subresource Integrity - by Frederik Braun][using sri]
* [Subresource Integrity specification][sri spec]
* [Protect your site from Cryptojacking with CSP + SRI - by Scott Helme][prevent cryptojacking]
* [SRI Hash Generator][srihash generator]

<!-- Link labels: -->

[collisions]: https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-subresource-integrity/#hash-collision-attacks
[crossorigin]: https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-subresource-integrity/#is-response-eligible
[prevent cryptojacking]: https://scotthelme.co.uk/protect-site-from-cryptojacking-csp-sri/
[secure context]: https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-subresource-integrity/#non-secure-contexts
[sonarwhalrc]: https://sonarwhal.com/docs/user-guide/further-configuration/sonarwhalrc-formats/
[sri format]: https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-subresource-integrity/#resource-integrity
[sri spec]: https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-subresource-integrity/
[srihash generator]: https://www.srihash.org/
[using sri]: https://frederik-braun.com/using-subresource-integrity.html
[weak link]: https://scotthelme.co.uk/protect-site-from-cryptojacking-csp-sri/#theweaklink

Commit message:

Docs: Add "how to install" information
Close #958

packages/rule-sri/README.md, after:

# Require scripts and styles to use subresource integrity (`@sonarwhal/rule-sri`)

`sri` warns about requesting scripts or stylesheets without using subresource
integrity.

## Why is this important?

Nowadays it's very common to use third party resources from CDNs or different
services (analytics, ads, etc.), and thus, increasing the risk surface of your
web site/app.

While there are techniques to verify the agent is talking with the right server
(TLS, HSTS, etc.), an attacker (or administrator) with access to the server can
manipulate the content with impunity.

> If you want to load a crypto miner on 1,000+ websites you don't attack 1,000+
websites, you attack the 1 website that they all load content from.
([Scott Helme][weak link])

Subresource integrity [is a standard][sri spec] that mitigates this by ensuring
that an exact representation of a resource, and only that representation, loads
and executes.

## How to use this rule?

To use it you will have to install it via `npm`:

```bash
npm install @sonarwhal/rule-sri
```

Note: You can make `npm` install it as a `devDependency` using the `--save-dev`
parameter, or to install it globally, you can use the `-g` parameter. For
other options see
[`npm`'s documentation](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/install).

And then activate it via the [`.sonarwhalrc`][sonarwhalrc]
configuration file:

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "parsers": [...],
    "rules": {
        "sri": "error"
    },
    ...
}
```

## What does the rule check?

This rule checks that a website uses correctly SRI, more especifically:

* All the downloaded resources by an `<script>` or `<link rel="stylesheet">`
  have an `integrity` attribute.
* [The `integrity` attribute has to be valid][sri format]. I.e.: it should
  contain something in the form of `sha(256|384|512)-HASH`, where `HASH` is
  the hashed value of the downlaoded body's response using the previously
  specified algorithm (`sha256`, `sha384`, or `sha512`).
* The minium cryptographic hash function used is [`sha384`][collisions].
  If multiple ones are provided, the highest one will be used to determine if
  the baseline is met.
* When using a cross-origin resource (e.g.: using a script hosted in a third
  party CDN), the `<script>` or `<link>` tag needs to have a valid
  [`crossorigin` attribute][crossorigin].
* The resource is served on a [secure context][secure context] (i.e.: HTTPS) to
  guarantee the HTML and resource haven't been tampered during the delivery.
* The hash from the `integrity` attribute needs to be the same as the one
  calculated using the response's body.
* If multiple hashes are provided, at least one needs to be valid.

### Examples that **trigger** the rule

Same-origin resource with no `integrity`:

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="/style.css">
```

Same-origin resource with hash function less secure than `sha384`:

```html
<script src="/script.js" integrity="sha256-validHashHere">
</script>
```

Cross-origin resource with no `crossorigin` attribute:

```html
<script src="https://example.com/example-framework.js"
  integrity="sha384-Li9vy3DqF8tnTXuiaAJuML3ky+er10rcgNR/VqsVpcw+ThHmYcwiB1pbOxEbzJr7">
</script>
```

Cross-origin resource with invalid `crossorigin` attribute:

```html
<script src="https://example.com/example-framework.js"
  integrity="sha384-Li9vy3DqF8tnTXuiaAJuML3ky+er10rcgNR/VqsVpcw+ThHmYcwiB1pbOxEbzJr7"
  crossorigin="invalid">
</script>
```

Cross-origin resource loaded over `HTTP`:

```html
<script src="http://example.com/example-framework.js"
  integrity="sha384-Li9vy3DqF8tnTXuiaAJuML3ky+er10rcgNR/VqsVpcw+ThHmYcwiB1pbOxEbzJr7"
  crossorigin="invalid">
</script>
```

### Examples that **pass** the rule

Same-origin resource with `sha384` or better:

```html
<script src="/script.js" integrity="sha384-validHashHere">
</script>
```

Same-origin resource with multiple hashes and `sha384` is one of them:

```html
<script src="/script.js"
  integrity="sha256-validHashHere
             sha384-validHashHere">
</script>
```

Cross-origin resource with valid `crossorigin` attribute:

```html
<script src="https://example.com/example-framework.js"
  integrity="sha384-Li9vy3DqF8tnTXuiaAJuML3ky+er10rcgNR/VqsVpcw+ThHmYcwiB1pbOxEbzJr7"
  crossorigin="anonymous">
</script>
```

## Can the rule be configured?

Yes, by default the baseline algorithm is `sha384` but you can
change it to `sha256`, or `sha512` by specifying that in the
[`.sonarwhalrc`][sonarwhalrc] file:

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "rules": {
        "sri": ["warning", {
            "baseline": "sha512"
        }],
        ...
    },
    ...
}
```

The above will validate that the `integrity` of all scripts and styles use
`sha512`.

## Further Reading

* [Using Subresource Integrity - by Frederik Braun][using sri]
* [Subresource Integrity specification][sri spec]
* [Protect your site from Cryptojacking with CSP + SRI - by Scott Helme][prevent cryptojacking]
* [SRI Hash Generator][srihash generator]

<!-- Link labels: -->

[collisions]: https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-subresource-integrity/#hash-collision-attacks
[crossorigin]: https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-subresource-integrity/#is-response-eligible
[prevent cryptojacking]: https://scotthelme.co.uk/protect-site-from-cryptojacking-csp-sri/
[secure context]: https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-subresource-integrity/#non-secure-contexts
[sonarwhalrc]: https://sonarwhal.com/docs/user-guide/further-configuration/sonarwhalrc-formats/
[sri format]: https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-subresource-integrity/#resource-integrity
[sri spec]: https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-subresource-integrity/
[srihash generator]: https://www.srihash.org/
[using sri]: https://frederik-braun.com/using-subresource-integrity.html
[weak link]: https://scotthelme.co.uk/protect-site-from-cryptojacking-csp-sri/#theweaklink
