packages/sonarwhal/docs/user-guide/concepts/formatters.md, before:

# Formatters

A `formatter` takes the results of executing the configured rules and
transforms them to be consumed by the user. A `formatter` can output
the results via the `console` in different formats, a `JSON` file,
`XML`, etc.

You can specify one or more `formatter`s as the output. E.g.: You want
a summary in the screen as well as a text report. You just need to
add the name inside the property `formatters`:

```json
{
    "formatters": "formatter1"
}
```

or

```json
{
    "formatters": [
        "formatter1",
        "formatter2"
    ]
}
```

## List of official `formatter`s

The built-in `formatter`s are:

* `json` does a `JSON.stringify()` of the results. Output
  is not user friendly:

![Example output for the json formatter](images/json-output.png)

* `stylish` prints the results in table format indicating the resource,
  line, and column:

![Example output for the stylish formatter](images/stylish-output.png)

* `codeframe` shows also the code where the error was found if: Will
  show the piece of code where the error was found (if applicable):

![Example output for the codeframe formatter](images/codeframe.png)

* `summary` shows just a summary of all the warnings and errors found
  for all the resources:

![Example output for the summary formatter](images/summary-output.png)

If you want to implement your own `formatter`, visit the [contributor
guide][contributor guide]

<!-- Link labels: -->

[contributor guide]: ../../../contributor-guide/formatters/

Commit message:

New: Add `excel` formatter
Close #860

packages/sonarwhal/docs/user-guide/concepts/formatters.md, after:

# Formatters

A `formatter` takes the results of executing the configured rules and
transforms them to be consumed by the user. A `formatter` can output
the results via the `console` in different formats, a `JSON` file,
`XML`, etc.

You can specify one or more `formatter`s as the output. E.g.: You want
a summary in the screen as well as a text report. You just need to
add the name inside the property `formatters`:

```json
{
    "formatters": "formatter1"
}
```

or

```json
{
    "formatters": [
        "formatter1",
        "formatter2"
    ]
}
```

## List of official `formatter`s

The officially supported `formatter`s that can be installed via `npm` are:

* [`@sonarwhal/formatter-json`][formatter-json] does a `JSON.stringify()` of
  the results. Output is not user friendly:

![Example output for the json formatter](images/json-output.png)

* [`@sonarwhal/formatter-stylish`][formatter-stylish] prints the results in
  table format indicating the resource, line, and column:

![Example output for the stylish formatter](images/stylish-output.png)

* [`@sonarwhal/formatter-codeframe`][formatter-codeframe] shows also the code
  where the error was found if applicable:

![Example output for the codeframe formatter](images/codeframe.png)

* [`@sonarwhal/formatter-summary`][formatter-summary] shows just a summary of
  all the warnings and errors found for all the resources:

![Example output for the summary formatter](images/summary-output.png)

* [`@sonarwhal/formatter-excel`][formatter-excel] creates an Excel spreadsheet
  with a sheet with the results per resource:

![Example output for the summary sheet of the excel formatter](images/excel-summary.png)

![Example output for one of the details sheet of the excel formatter](images/excel-details.png)


If you want to implement your own `formatter`, visit the [contributor
guide][contributor guide]

<!-- Link labels: -->

[contributor guide]: ../../../contributor-guide/formatters/
[formatter-json]: https://npmjs.com/packages/@sonarwhal/formatter-json
[formatter-stylish]: https://npmjs.com/packages/@sonarwhal/formatter-stylish
[formatter-codeframe]: https://npmjs.com/packages/@sonarwhal/formatter-codeframe
[formatter-summary]: https://npmjs.com/packages/@sonarwhal/formatter-summary
[formatter-excel]: https://npmjs.com/packages/@sonarwhal/formatter-excel
