packages/rule-no-http-redirects/README.md, before:

# Avoid HTTP redirects in requests (`@sonarwhal/rule-no-http-redirects`)

`no-http-redirects` checks if there are any HTTP redirects in the page
`sonarwhal` is analyzing.

## Why is this important?

Consider the following simplified desription of what happens when a
user requests a URL within a browser:

1. DNS Lookup: Translate the server domain to an IP. If the browser
   doesn’t know it, it asks a DNS server which in some cases involves
   multiple queries until the final IP is obtained.
1. Open a [TCP connection][wikipedia-tcp-establishment] to the server
   IP address requesting the URL.
1. The server responds to that request by sending some content over
   the TCP connection.
   If the resource uses SSL, then [TLS negotation(s)][wikipedia-tls-handshake]
   happens as well.

When a redirect occurs, `3.` contains the new URL the browser needs to
request, repeating the whole sequence of steps. DNS Lookup isn’t cheap,
neither is [creating a TCP connection][tcp-connection-diagram]. The
impact of redirects is felt even more by mobile users, where the [network
latency is usually higher][pagespeed-insights].
As a rule of thumb, the more you can avoid redirects the better.

## What does the rule check?

This rule checks:

* If the target URL passed to `sonarwhal` has any redirect. E.g.:
  `http://www.example.com` --> `http://example.com`
* If any resource in the page has any redirect. E.g.:
  `http://example.com/script.js` --> `https://example.com/script.js`

and alerts if at least one is found.

### Examples that **trigger** the rule

* Any URL passed to `sonarwhal` that redirects to another one
* Any page with a resource (script, css, image) behind a redirect

### Examples that **pass** the rule

* No redirect for resources nor the target URL.

## Can the rule be configured?

By default no redirects are allowed but you can change this behavior.

The following rule configuration used in the [`.sonarwhalrc`][sonarwhalrc]
file will allow 3 redirects for resources and 1 for the main URL:

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "rules": {
        "no-http-redirects": ["error", {
            "max-resource-redirects": 3,
            "max-html-redirects": 1
        }],
        ...
    },
    ...
}
```

## Further Reading

* [Mobile Analysis in PageSpeed Insights][pagespeed-insights]
* [50 performance tricks to make your HTML5 apps and sites faster][50-tricks]
  (skip to 19:35)
* [Domain Names - Implementation and Specification][rfc1035]
* [How DNS Works][how-dns-works]
* [Redirections in HTTP][MDN-Redirections]
* [Transmision Control Protocol][wikipedia-tcp]

<!-- Link labels: -->

[50-tricks]: https://channel9.msdn.com/events/Build/2012/3-132#time=19m35s
[how-dns-works]: https://www.verisign.com/en_US/website-presence/online/how-dns-works/index.xhtml
[MDN-Redirections]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Redirections
[pagespeed-insights]: https://developers.google.com/speed/docs/insights/mobile#adapting-to-high-latency-mobile-networks
[rfc1035]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1035
[sonarwhalrc]: https://sonarwhal.com/docs/user-guide/further-configuration/sonarwhalrc-formats/
[tcp-connection-diagram]: https://www.eventhelix.com/RealtimeMantra/Networking/tcp/#.WgOQBkxFy2c
[wikipedia-tcp-establishment]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transmission_Control_Protocol#Connection_establishment
[wikipedia-tcp]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transmission_Control_Protocol
[wikipedia-tls-handshake]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport_Layer_Security#TLS_handshake

Commit message:

Docs: Add "how to install" information
Close #958

packages/rule-no-http-redirects/README.md, after:

# Avoid HTTP redirects in requests (`@sonarwhal/rule-no-http-redirects`)

`no-http-redirects` checks if there are any HTTP redirects in the page
`sonarwhal` is analyzing.

## Why is this important?

Consider the following simplified desription of what happens when a
user requests a URL within a browser:

1. DNS Lookup: Translate the server domain to an IP. If the browser
   doesn’t know it, it asks a DNS server which in some cases involves
   multiple queries until the final IP is obtained.
1. Open a [TCP connection][wikipedia-tcp-establishment] to the server
   IP address requesting the URL.
1. The server responds to that request by sending some content over
   the TCP connection.
   If the resource uses SSL, then [TLS negotation(s)][wikipedia-tls-handshake]
   happens as well.

When a redirect occurs, `3.` contains the new URL the browser needs to
request, repeating the whole sequence of steps. DNS Lookup isn’t cheap,
neither is [creating a TCP connection][tcp-connection-diagram]. The
impact of redirects is felt even more by mobile users, where the [network
latency is usually higher][pagespeed-insights].
As a rule of thumb, the more you can avoid redirects the better.

## How to use this rule?

To use it you will have to install it via `npm`:

```bash
npm install @sonarwhal/rule-no-http-redirects
```

Note: You can make `npm` install it as a `devDependency` using the `--save-dev`
parameter, or to install it globally, you can use the `-g` parameter. For
other options see
[`npm`'s documentation](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/install).

And then activate it via the [`.sonarwhalrc`][sonarwhalrc]
configuration file:

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "parsers": [...],
    "rules": {
        "no-http-redirects": "error"
    },
    ...
}
```

## What does the rule check?

This rule checks:

* If the target URL passed to `sonarwhal` has any redirect. E.g.:
  `http://www.example.com` --> `http://example.com`
* If any resource in the page has any redirect. E.g.:
  `http://example.com/script.js` --> `https://example.com/script.js`

and alerts if at least one is found.

### Examples that **trigger** the rule

* Any URL passed to `sonarwhal` that redirects to another one
* Any page with a resource (script, css, image) behind a redirect

### Examples that **pass** the rule

* No redirect for resources nor the target URL.

## Can the rule be configured?

By default no redirects are allowed but you can change this behavior.

The following rule configuration used in the [`.sonarwhalrc`][sonarwhalrc]
file will allow 3 redirects for resources and 1 for the main URL:

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "rules": {
        "no-http-redirects": ["error", {
            "max-resource-redirects": 3,
            "max-html-redirects": 1
        }],
        ...
    },
    ...
}
```

## Further Reading

* [Mobile Analysis in PageSpeed Insights][pagespeed-insights]
* [50 performance tricks to make your HTML5 apps and sites faster][50-tricks]
  (skip to 19:35)
* [Domain Names - Implementation and Specification][rfc1035]
* [How DNS Works][how-dns-works]
* [Redirections in HTTP][MDN-Redirections]
* [Transmision Control Protocol][wikipedia-tcp]

<!-- Link labels: -->

[50-tricks]: https://channel9.msdn.com/events/Build/2012/3-132#time=19m35s
[how-dns-works]: https://www.verisign.com/en_US/website-presence/online/how-dns-works/index.xhtml
[MDN-Redirections]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Redirections
[pagespeed-insights]: https://developers.google.com/speed/docs/insights/mobile#adapting-to-high-latency-mobile-networks
[rfc1035]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1035
[sonarwhalrc]: https://sonarwhal.com/docs/user-guide/further-configuration/sonarwhalrc-formats/
[tcp-connection-diagram]: https://www.eventhelix.com/RealtimeMantra/Networking/tcp/#.WgOQBkxFy2c
[wikipedia-tcp-establishment]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transmission_Control_Protocol#Connection_establishment
[wikipedia-tcp]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transmission_Control_Protocol
[wikipedia-tls-handshake]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport_Layer_Security#TLS_handshake
