packages/rule-no-protocol-relative-urls/README.md, before:

# Disallow protocol-relative URLs (`@sonarwhal/rule-no-protocol-relative-urls`)

`no-protocol-relative-urls` warns against using scheme-relative URLs
(commonly known as protocol-relative URLs).

## Why is this important?

A shorthand way of specifying URLs is to remove the protocol and
let the browser determine the relative protocol based on the current
connection to the resource.

As the web moves [towards HTTPS everywhere][https only web],
the use of [protocol-relative URLs][protocol-relative urls] has
become an anti-pattern, exposing some sites to man in the middle
compromises and is therefore best avoided.

Particularly for web sites/apps served over HTTP, other drawbacks
when using protocol relative URLs include:

* Performance

  * If the web site/app is served over HTTP, for every
    protocol-relative URL that does support HTTPS and:

    * does a redirect to it (i.e. most CDNs), the load time will take
      longer than if the request was made directly to the `https://`
      version of the URL.

    * does not redirect to it, you may be missing out on things
      such as Brotli compression and HTTP/2 that are only supported
      by browsers over HTTPS.

  * [Internet Explorer 7 and 8 will download a stylesheet twice if
    protocol-relative URLs are used for `<link>`s or `@import`s][ie issue].

* Security

  If protocol-relative URLs are used for CDN links, their
  domain is not in the browser’s [HSTS preload list][hsts preload list],
  and the first request is not made over HTTP, there is a high risk
  of man-in-the-middle attacks.

  Of course if the web site/app is served over HTTP it is already
  exposed to those types of attacks, but in general CDNs constitute
  a high-value target, and therefore, are much more likely to be
  attacked than most of the individual sites that use them.

## What does the rule check?

The rule checks for protocol-relative URLs.

Note: Currently the rule does not check for protocol-relative URLs
inside of stylesheets and scripts.

Let’s presume `example1.com` does not support HTTPS and `example2.com`
does.

### Examples that **trigger** the rule

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="//example1.com/style.css">
```

```html
<script src="//example2.com/script.js"></script>
```

### Examples that **pass** the rule

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="http://example1.com/style.css">
```

```html
<script src="https://example2.com/script.js"></script>
```

## Further Reading

* [The protocol-relative URL][protocol-relative urls]
* [Moving CDNs to HTTPS](https://github.com/konklone/cdns-to-https#readme)

<!-- Link labels: -->

[hsts preload list]: https://hstspreload.org
[https only web]: https://w3ctag.github.io/web-https/#h-motivating-a-secure-web
[ie issue]: https://www.stevesouders.com/blog/2010/02/10/5a-missing-schema-double-download/
[protocol-relative urls]: https://www.paulirish.com/2010/the-protocol-relative-url/

Commit message:

Docs: Add "how to install" information
Close #958

packages/rule-no-protocol-relative-urls/README.md, after:

# Disallow protocol-relative URLs (`@sonarwhal/rule-no-protocol-relative-urls`)

`no-protocol-relative-urls` warns against using scheme-relative URLs
(commonly known as protocol-relative URLs).

## Why is this important?

A shorthand way of specifying URLs is to remove the protocol and
let the browser determine the relative protocol based on the current
connection to the resource.

As the web moves [towards HTTPS everywhere][https only web],
the use of [protocol-relative URLs][protocol-relative urls] has
become an anti-pattern, exposing some sites to man in the middle
compromises and is therefore best avoided.

Particularly for web sites/apps served over HTTP, other drawbacks
when using protocol relative URLs include:

* Performance

  * If the web site/app is served over HTTP, for every
    protocol-relative URL that does support HTTPS and:

    * does a redirect to it (i.e. most CDNs), the load time will take
      longer than if the request was made directly to the `https://`
      version of the URL.

    * does not redirect to it, you may be missing out on things
      such as Brotli compression and HTTP/2 that are only supported
      by browsers over HTTPS.

  * [Internet Explorer 7 and 8 will download a stylesheet twice if
    protocol-relative URLs are used for `<link>`s or `@import`s][ie issue].

* Security

  If protocol-relative URLs are used for CDN links, their
  domain is not in the browser’s [HSTS preload list][hsts preload list],
  and the first request is not made over HTTP, there is a high risk
  of man-in-the-middle attacks.

  Of course if the web site/app is served over HTTP it is already
  exposed to those types of attacks, but in general CDNs constitute
  a high-value target, and therefore, are much more likely to be
  attacked than most of the individual sites that use them.

## How to use this rule?

To use it you will have to install it via `npm`:

```bash
npm install @sonarwhal/rule-no-protocol-relative-urls
```

Note: You can make `npm` install it as a `devDependency` using the `--save-dev`
parameter, or to install it globally, you can use the `-g` parameter. For
other options see
[`npm`'s documentation](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/install).

And then activate it via the [`.sonarwhalrc`][sonarwhalrc]
configuration file:

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "parsers": [...],
    "rules": {
        "no-protocol-relative-urls": "error"
    },
    ...
}
```

## What does the rule check?

The rule checks for protocol-relative URLs.

Note: Currently the rule does not check for protocol-relative URLs
inside of stylesheets and scripts.

Let’s presume `example1.com` does not support HTTPS and `example2.com`
does.

### Examples that **trigger** the rule

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="//example1.com/style.css">
```

```html
<script src="//example2.com/script.js"></script>
```

### Examples that **pass** the rule

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="http://example1.com/style.css">
```

```html
<script src="https://example2.com/script.js"></script>
```

## Further Reading

* [The protocol-relative URL][protocol-relative urls]
* [Moving CDNs to HTTPS](https://github.com/konklone/cdns-to-https#readme)

<!-- Link labels: -->

[hsts preload list]: https://hstspreload.org
[https only web]: https://w3ctag.github.io/web-https/#h-motivating-a-secure-web
[ie issue]: https://www.stevesouders.com/blog/2010/02/10/5a-missing-schema-double-download/
[protocol-relative urls]: https://www.paulirish.com/2010/the-protocol-relative-url/
