packages/rule-manifest-exists/README.md, before:

# Require a web app manifest file (`@sonarwhal/rule-manifest-exists`)

`manifest-exists` warns against not providing a [web app manifest][spec]
file.

## Why is this important?

The web app manifest file constitutes a standard centralized place
to put metadata about your site/web app, and providing it:

* informs browsers (and possible [others][windows] where to look for
  information about your site/web app, information that they may need
  in different contexts (e.g. what icon and name should they use for
  your site/web app when the user adds it to the homescreen)

* is an essential piece in the context of progressive web apps,
  being one of the signals used by some browsers (e.g. [Chrome][chrome],
  [opera][opera], [samsung internet][samsung internet]) in deciding if
  they will show the add to homescreen prompt to users

## How to use this rule?

To use it you will have to install it via `npm`:

```bash
npm install @sonarwhal/rule-manifest-exists
```

Note: You can make `npm` install it as a `devDependency` using the `--save-dev`
parameter, or to install it globally, you can use the `-g` parameter. For
other options see
[`npm`'s documentation](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/install).

And then activate it via the [`.sonarwhalrc`][sonarwhalrc]
configuration file:

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "parsers": [...],
    "rules": {
        "manifest-exists": "error"
    },
    ...
}
```

## What does the rule check?

This rule checks if:

* The web app manifest file is specified correctly in the page
  (i.e. the page contains a single, valid declaration such as:
  `<link rel="manifest" href="site.webmanifest">`)

* The specified web app manifest file is accessible (i.e. requesting
  it doesn’t result in a `404`, `500`, etc.)

### Examples that **trigger** the rule

The web app manifest file is not specified:

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>example</title>
        ...
    </head>
    <body>...</body>
</html>
```

The location of the web app manifest file is not specified:

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>example</title>
        <link rel="manifest">
        ...
    </head>
    <body>...</body>
</html>
```

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>example</title>
        <link rel="manifest" href="">
        ...
    </head>
    <body>...</body>
</html>
```

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>example</title>
        <link rel="manifest" hrref="site.webmanifest">
        ...
    </head>
    <body>...</body>
</html>
```

More than one web app manifest file is specified:

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>example</title>
        <link rel="manifest" href="site.webmanifest">
        <link rel="manifest" href="another-site.webmanifest">
        ...
    </head>
    <body>...</body>
</html>
```

### Examples that **pass** the rule

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>example</title>
        <link rel="manifest" href="site.webmanifest">
        ...
    </head>
    <body>...</body>
</html>
```

## Further Reading

* [Web App Manifest Specification][spec]

<!-- Link labels: -->

[chrome]: https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/engage-and-retain/app-install-banners/
[opera]: https://dev.opera.com/blog/web-app-install-banners/
[samsung internet]: https://medium.com/samsung-internet-dev/what-does-it-mean-to-be-an-app-ace43eb6b94d
[spec]: https://www.w3.org/TR/appmanifest
[windows]: https://medium.com/web-on-the-edge/progressive-web-apps-on-windows-8d8eb68d524e

Commit message:

Docs: readme changes
Suggestions especially in the PWA category, I'm removing the web site/app notion as it's really talking about the site as an app.

packages/rule-manifest-exists/README.md, after:

# Require a web app manifest file (`@sonarwhal/rule-manifest-exists`)

`manifest-exists` warns when a [web app manifest][spec]
file is not found.

## Why is this important?

The web app manifest file is required to define a progressive web
app. It's the standard, centralized store of the applications
metadata which:

* informs browsers (and possible [others][windows] where to look for
  information about your web app, information that they may need
  in different contexts (e.g. what icon and name should be used if
  your web app is added to the homescreen)

* is an essential piece in the context of progressive web apps,
  being one of the signals used by some browsers (e.g. [Chrome][chrome],
  [opera][opera], [samsung internet][samsung internet]) in deciding if
  they will show the add to homescreen prompt to users

## How to use this rule?

To use it you will have to install it via `npm`:

```bash
npm install @sonarwhal/rule-manifest-exists
```

Note: You can make `npm` install it as a `devDependency` using the `--save-dev`
parameter, or to install it globally, you can use the `-g` parameter. For
other options see
[`npm`'s documentation](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/install).

And then activate it via the [`.sonarwhalrc`][sonarwhalrc]
configuration file:

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "parsers": [...],
    "rules": {
        "manifest-exists": "error"
    },
    ...
}
```

## What does the rule check?

This rule checks if:

* The web app manifest file is specified correctly in the page
  (i.e. the page contains a single, valid declaration such as:
  `<link rel="manifest" href="site.webmanifest">`)

* The specified web app manifest file is accessible (i.e. requesting
  it doesn’t result in a `404`, `500`, etc.)

### Examples that **trigger** the rule

The web app manifest file is not specified:

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>example</title>
        ...
    </head>
    <body>...</body>
</html>
```

The location of the web app manifest file is not specified:

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>example</title>
        <link rel="manifest">
        ...
    </head>
    <body>...</body>
</html>
```

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>example</title>
        <link rel="manifest" href="">
        ...
    </head>
    <body>...</body>
</html>
```

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>example</title>
        <link rel="manifest" hrref="site.webmanifest">
        ...
    </head>
    <body>...</body>
</html>
```

More than one web app manifest file is specified:

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>example</title>
        <link rel="manifest" href="site.webmanifest">
        <link rel="manifest" href="another-site.webmanifest">
        ...
    </head>
    <body>...</body>
</html>
```

### Examples that **pass** the rule

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>example</title>
        <link rel="manifest" href="site.webmanifest">
        ...
    </head>
    <body>...</body>
</html>
```

## Further Reading

* [Web App Manifest Specification][spec]

<!-- Link labels: -->

[chrome]: https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/engage-and-retain/app-install-banners/
[opera]: https://dev.opera.com/blog/web-app-install-banners/
[samsung internet]: https://medium.com/samsung-internet-dev/what-does-it-mean-to-be-an-app-ace43eb6b94d
[spec]: https://www.w3.org/TR/appmanifest
[windows]: https://medium.com/web-on-the-edge/progressive-web-apps-on-windows-8d8eb68d524e
