docs/about/FAQ.md, before:

# FAQ

## What is sonar?

`sonar` is a linting tool for the web, with a strong focus on the
developer experience: easy to configure, develop, and well documented.

`sonar` doesn't want to reinvent the wheel. For that reason it tries
to integrate other tools and services that do a great job, and
contribute back where appropriate. For example, we are using [aXe][axe]
for accessibility, [SSL Server Test][ssllabs] for checking the
certificate configuration, etc.

## What is sonar's goal?

We have a few:

* Bring the community together to decide what best practices are
  in several areas.
* Help web developers write the best possible code.
* Clean up the web of bad practices.
* Promote community tools and services that do an awesome job but
  could not be known by everybody.

## Who started sonar?

`sonar`'s development started inside the Microsoft Edge team. Early on,
the team realized that not only the project had to be open source, but
also be community driven. The best way to achieve that was by donating
the code to the JS Foundation, have a governance model that welcomes
input for anyone in the web community (browser vendors, web experts,
and developers), and continue the work there.

## What can I do to help?

There are lots of things you can do to make `sonar` better, from
reviewing documentation, writting new one, filling bugs, triaging,
coding, etc.

We will gladly accept any contribution you can do. Most of the
[issues in `sonar`][issues] should have a difficulty level.
Also don't hesitate to ask for help.

## What browsers are supported?

`sonar` currently supports [jsdom][jsdom], Chrome, and Edge 15.
We hope to add support for Firefox soon. If your favorite browser
is not supported you can always [develop a connector][new issue]
for it!

## Is there a plugin for my favorite editor?

Editor plugins are not yet available, but it is high in our priority
list.

## Is there an online service?

Yes! It's in preview so there might be some intermitent issues, but
you can scan an online website in [here][scanner].

We are working on tweaking the list of rules it runs and its
configuration, but if a rule is a recommended one it will probably
be run.

Also, note that the scanner uses the `jsdom connector` so there might
be unexpected results.

If you have any feedback on the results page, please open an
issue in the [website repository][scanner-issues]. If the issue is
related to the results themselves, then open an issue in the [sonar
repository][sonar-issues].

## What is the logo?

Our logo is Nellie the narwhal. Narwhals are not only [awesome][narwhal
song] but have one of the best sonars in the animal kingdom.

[Narwhal echolocation beams may be the most directional of any
species][narwhal echolocation].

> Recordings of narwhal (Monodon monoceros) echolocation signals were
> made using a linear 16 hydrophone array in the pack ice of Baffin Bay,
> West Greenland in 2013 at eleven sites. An average -3 dB beam width
> of 5.0° **makes the narwhal click the most directional biosonar signal
> reported for any species to date.**

## I don't agree with one of your rules, how can I tell you?

Great, let's make it better! You can [open an issue here][new issue]
telling us what you think can be improved.

<!-- Link labels: -->

[axe]: https://www.deque.com/products/axe/
[connector docs]: /docs/contributor-guide/connectors/index.md
[issues]: https://github.com/sonarwhal/sonarwhal/issues
[jsdom]: https://github.com/tmpvar/jsdom
[narwhal echolocation]: http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0162069
[narwhal song]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ykwqXuMPsoc
[new issue]: https://github.com/sonarwhal/sonarwhal/issues/new
[scanner]: https://sonarwhal.com/scanner
[scanner-issues]: https://github.com/sonarwhal/sonarwhal.com/issues/new
[sonar-issues]: https://github.com/sonarwhal/sonarwhal/issues/new
[ssllabs]: https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/

Commit message:

Breaking: Rename `sonar` to `sonarwhal` everywhere
* Update the CLI from `sonar` to `sonarwhal`
* Configuration file is now `.sonarwhalrc`
* Update all coments that used `sonar`
* Rename some internal variables

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Fix #655

docs/about/FAQ.md, after:

# FAQ

## What is sonarwhal?

`sonarwhal` is a linting tool for the web, with a strong focus on the
developer experience: easy to configure, develop, and well documented.

`sonarwhal` doesn't want to reinvent the wheel. For that reason it tries
to integrate other tools and services that do a great job, and
contribute back where appropriate. For example, we are using [aXe][axe]
for accessibility, [SSL Server Test][ssllabs] for checking the
certificate configuration, etc.

## What is sonarwhal's goal?

We have a few:

* Bring the community together to decide what best practices are
  in several areas.
* Help web developers write the best possible code.
* Clean up the web of bad practices.
* Promote community tools and services that do an awesome job but
  could not be known by everybody.

## Who started sonarwhal?

`sonarwhal`'s development started inside the Microsoft Edge team. Early on,
the team realized that not only the project had to be open source, but
also be community driven. The best way to achieve that was by donating
the code to the JS Foundation, have a governance model that welcomes
input for anyone in the web community (browser vendors, web experts,
and developers), and continue the work there.

## What can I do to help?

There are lots of things you can do to make `sonarwhal` better, from
reviewing documentation, writting new one, filling bugs, triaging,
coding, etc.

We will gladly accept any contribution you can do. Most of the
[issues in `sonarwhal`][issues] should have a difficulty level.
Also don't hesitate to ask for help.

## What browsers are supported?

`sonarwhal` currently supports [jsdom][jsdom], Chrome, and Edge 15.
We hope to add support for Firefox soon. If your favorite browser
is not supported you can always [develop a connector][new issue]
for it!

## Is there a plugin for my favorite editor?

Editor plugins are not yet available, but it is high in our priority
list.

## Is there an online service?

Yes! It's in preview so there might be some intermitent issues, but
you can scan an online website in [here][scanner].

We are working on tweaking the list of rules it runs and its
configuration, but if a rule is a recommended one it will probably
be run.

Also, note that the scanner uses the `jsdom connector` so there might
be unexpected results.

If you have any feedback on the results page, please open an
issue in the [website repository][scanner-issues]. If the issue is
related to the results themselves, then open an issue in the [sonarwhal
repository][sonarwhal-issues].

## What is the logo?

Our logo is Nellie the narwhal. Narwhals are not only [awesome][narwhal
song] but have one of the best sonars in the animal kingdom.

[Narwhal echolocation beams may be the most directional of any
species][narwhal echolocation].

> Recordings of narwhal (Monodon monoceros) echolocation signals were
> made using a linear 16 hydrophone array in the pack ice of Baffin Bay,
> West Greenland in 2013 at eleven sites. An average -3 dB beam width
> of 5.0° **makes the narwhal click the most directional biosonar signal
> reported for any species to date.**

## I don't agree with one of your rules, how can I tell you?

Great, let's make it better! You can [open an issue here][new issue]
telling us what you think can be improved.

<!-- Link labels: -->

[axe]: https://www.deque.com/products/axe/
[connector docs]: /docs/contributor-guide/connectors/index.md
[issues]: https://github.com/sonarwhal/sonarwhal/issues
[jsdom]: https://github.com/tmpvar/jsdom
[narwhal echolocation]: http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0162069
[narwhal song]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ykwqXuMPsoc
[new issue]: https://github.com/sonarwhal/sonarwhal/issues/new
[scanner]: https://sonarwhal.com/scanner
[scanner-issues]: https://github.com/sonarwhal/sonarwhal.com/issues/new
[sonarwhal-issues]: https://github.com/sonarwhal/sonarwhal/issues/new
[ssllabs]: https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/
