packages/rule-no-friendly-error-pages/README.md, before:

# Disallow small error pages (`@sonarwhal/rule-no-friendly-error-pages`)

`no-friendly-error-pages` warns against using error pages that
have the size under a certain threshold.

## Why is this important?

By default [`Internet Explorer 5-11` will show its custom error
pages][friendly error pages] if the response body’s byte length
is shorter than:

* `256` bytes for responses with the status code: `403`, `405`,
  or `410`
* `512` bytes for responses with the status code: `400`, `404`,
  `406`, `408`, `409`, `500`, `501`, or `505`

Similar behavior existed in older versions of other browsers, such
as [Chrome][chromium issue].

While in `Internet Explorer` users can disabled the `Show friendly
HTTP error messages` functionality, that is not usually the case.

## What does the rule check?

The rule looks at all responses and checks if any of them have one
of the status codes specified above and their body’s byte length is
under the required threshold.

Additionally, the rule will try to generate an error response (more
specifically a `404` response), if one wasn’t found.

### Examples that **trigger** the rule

Response with the status code `403` and the body under `256` bytes:

```text
HTTP/... 403 Forbidden

...
```

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>403 Forbidden</title>
    </head>
    <body>This page has under 256 bytes, so it will not be displayed by all browsers.</body>
</html>
```

Response with the status code `500` and the body under `512` bytes:

```text
HTTP/... 500 Internal Server Error

...
```

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>HTTP 500 - Internal Server Error</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>HTTP 500 - Internal Server Error</h1>
        <p>This page has under 512 bytes, therefore, it will not be displayed by some older browsers.</p>
    </body>
</html>
```

### Examples that **pass** the rule

Response with the status code `403` and the body over `256` bytes:

```text
HTTP/... 500 Internal Server Error

...
```

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>HTTP 403 - Forbidden</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>HTTP 403 - Forbidden</h1>
        <p>......................................................................</p>
        <p>This page has over 256 bytes, so it will be displayed by all browsers.</p>
        <p>......................................................................</p>
        <p>......................................................................</p>
    </body>
</html>
```

Response with the status code `500` and the body over `512` bytes:

```text
HTTP/... 500 Internal Server Error

...
```

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>HTTP 500 - Internal Server Error</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>HTTP 500 - Internal Server Error</h1>
        <p>......................................................................</p>
        <p>This page has over 512 bytes, so it will be displayed by all browsers.</p>
        <p>......................................................................</p>
        <p>......................................................................</p>
    </body>
</html>
```

## Further Reading

* [Friendly HTTP Error Pages][friendly error pages]

<!-- Link labels: -->

[chromium issue]: https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=36558
[friendly error pages]: https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/ieinternals/2010/08/18/friendly-http-error-pages/

Commit message:

Docs: Add "how to install" information
Close #958

packages/rule-no-friendly-error-pages/README.md, after:

# Disallow small error pages (`@sonarwhal/rule-no-friendly-error-pages`)

`no-friendly-error-pages` warns against using error pages that
have the size under a certain threshold.

## Why is this important?

By default [`Internet Explorer 5-11` will show its custom error
pages][friendly error pages] if the response body’s byte length
is shorter than:

* `256` bytes for responses with the status code: `403`, `405`,
  or `410`
* `512` bytes for responses with the status code: `400`, `404`,
  `406`, `408`, `409`, `500`, `501`, or `505`

Similar behavior existed in older versions of other browsers, such
as [Chrome][chromium issue].

While in `Internet Explorer` users can disabled the `Show friendly
HTTP error messages` functionality, that is not usually the case.

## How to use this rule?

To use it you will have to install it via `npm`:

```bash
npm install @sonarwhal/rule-no-friendly-error-pages
```

Note: You can make `npm` install it as a `devDependency` using the `--save-dev`
parameter, or to install it globally, you can use the `-g` parameter. For
other options see
[`npm`'s documentation](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/install).

And then activate it via the [`.sonarwhalrc`][sonarwhalrc]
configuration file:

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "parsers": [...],
    "rules": {
        "no-friendly-error-pages": "error"
    },
    ...
}
```

## What does the rule check?

The rule looks at all responses and checks if any of them have one
of the status codes specified above and their body’s byte length is
under the required threshold.

Additionally, the rule will try to generate an error response (more
specifically a `404` response), if one wasn’t found.

### Examples that **trigger** the rule

Response with the status code `403` and the body under `256` bytes:

```text
HTTP/... 403 Forbidden

...
```

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>403 Forbidden</title>
    </head>
    <body>This page has under 256 bytes, so it will not be displayed by all browsers.</body>
</html>
```

Response with the status code `500` and the body under `512` bytes:

```text
HTTP/... 500 Internal Server Error

...
```

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>HTTP 500 - Internal Server Error</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>HTTP 500 - Internal Server Error</h1>
        <p>This page has under 512 bytes, therefore, it will not be displayed by some older browsers.</p>
    </body>
</html>
```

### Examples that **pass** the rule

Response with the status code `403` and the body over `256` bytes:

```text
HTTP/... 500 Internal Server Error

...
```

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>HTTP 403 - Forbidden</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>HTTP 403 - Forbidden</h1>
        <p>......................................................................</p>
        <p>This page has over 256 bytes, so it will be displayed by all browsers.</p>
        <p>......................................................................</p>
        <p>......................................................................</p>
    </body>
</html>
```

Response with the status code `500` and the body over `512` bytes:

```text
HTTP/... 500 Internal Server Error

...
```

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>HTTP 500 - Internal Server Error</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>HTTP 500 - Internal Server Error</h1>
        <p>......................................................................</p>
        <p>This page has over 512 bytes, so it will be displayed by all browsers.</p>
        <p>......................................................................</p>
        <p>......................................................................</p>
    </body>
</html>
```

## Further Reading

* [Friendly HTTP Error Pages][friendly error pages]

<!-- Link labels: -->

[chromium issue]: https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=36558
[friendly error pages]: https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/ieinternals/2010/08/18/friendly-http-error-pages/
