packages/rule-html-checker/README.md, before:

# Nu HTML Test (`@sonarwhal/rule-html-checker`)

`html-checker` validates the markup of a website against the
[Nu HTML checker][nu html checker].

## Why is this important?

> Serving valid HTML nowadays have been commonly overlooked these days.
> By running the HTML documents through a checker, it’s easier to catch
> unintended mistakes which might have otherwise been missed.
> Adhering to the W3C’s standards has a lot to offer to both the
> developers and the web users: It provides better browser compatibility,
> helps to avoid potential problems with accessibility/usability,
> and makes it easier for future maintainance.
>
> The Nu Html Checker(v.Nu) serves as the backend of
> [html5.validator.nu][html5 validator], and
> [validator.w3.org/nu][w3 validator].
> It also provides a [web service interface][validator interface].

This rule interacts with this service via [`html-validator`][html-validator],
and is able to test both remote websites and local server instances.

## What does the rule check?

According to the Nu Html checker [documentation][nu html checker docs],
the positive cases contain two sections:

* Markup cases that are potential problems for accessibility,
  usability, interoperability, security, or maintainability—or because
  they can result in poor performance, or that might cause your scripts
  to fail in ways that are hard to troubleshoot.

* Markup cases that are defined as errors because they can cause you
  to run into potential problems in HTML parsing and error-handling
  behavior—so that, say, you’d end up with some unintuitive, unexpected
  result in the DOM.

For explanation behind those requirements, please checkout:

* [rationale for syntax-level errors](https://www.w3.org/TR/html/introduction.html#syntax-errors)
* [rationale for restrictions on content models and on attribute values](https://www.w3.org/TR/html/introduction.html#restrictions-on-content-models-and-on-attribute-values)

## Can the rule be configured?

By default only the first occurance of each error/warning is reported
when validating the markup. However, you can configure the rule to view
the complete list.

The following rule configuration in the [`.sonarwhalrc`][sonarwhalrc]
file will enable the full-list view of errors/warnings reported by the
HTML checker:

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "rules": {
        "html-checker": ["error", {
            "details": true
        }],
        ...
    },
    ...
}
```

You can ignore certain error/warning by setting the `ignore` option
for the `html-checker` rule. You can either pass in a string or an
array that contains all the messages to be ignored.

E.g. The following configuration will ignore the errors/warnings with
the message of `Invalid attribute`:

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "rules": {
        "html-checker": ["error", {
            "ignore": "Invalid attribute"
        }],
        ...
    },
    ...
}
```

Alternative, you can pass in an array if you have more than one type
of messages to ignore:

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "rules": {
        "html-checker": ["error", {
            "ignore": ["Invalid attribute", "Invalid tag"]
        }],
        ...
    },
    ...
}
```

You can also override the default validator by passing in the endpoint
of an alternative validator. However, you need to make sure that this
alternative validator exposes the same REST interface as the default one.

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "rules": {
        "html-checker": ["error", {
            "validator": "https://html5.validator.nu"
        }],
        ...
    },
    ...
}
```

## Further Reading

* [Why Validate Using the Nu Html Checker?][nu html checker docs]
* [The Nu Html Checker Wiki](https://github.com/validator/validator/wiki)

<!-- Link labels: -->

[html-validator]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/html-validator
[html5 validator]: https://html5.validator.nu
[nu html checker docs]: https://validator.w3.org/nu/about.html
[nu html checker]: https://validator.github.io/validator/
[sonarwhalrc]: https://sonarwhal.com/docs/user-guide/further-configuration/sonarwhalrc-formats/
[validator interface]: https://github.com/validator/validator/wiki/Service-%C2%BB-HTTP-interface
[w3 validator]: https://validator.w3.org/nu/

Commit message:

Docs: Add "how to install" information
Close #958

packages/rule-html-checker/README.md, after:

# Nu HTML Test (`@sonarwhal/rule-html-checker`)

`html-checker` validates the markup of a website against the
[Nu HTML checker][nu html checker].

## Why is this important?

> Serving valid HTML nowadays have been commonly overlooked these days.
> By running the HTML documents through a checker, it’s easier to catch
> unintended mistakes which might have otherwise been missed.
> Adhering to the W3C’s standards has a lot to offer to both the
> developers and the web users: It provides better browser compatibility,
> helps to avoid potential problems with accessibility/usability,
> and makes it easier for future maintainance.
>
> The Nu Html Checker(v.Nu) serves as the backend of
> [html5.validator.nu][html5 validator], and
> [validator.w3.org/nu][w3 validator].
> It also provides a [web service interface][validator interface].

This rule interacts with this service via [`html-validator`][html-validator],
and is able to test both remote websites and local server instances.

## How to use this rule?

To use it you will have to install it via `npm`:

```bash
npm install @sonarwhal/rule-html-checker
```

Note: You can make `npm` install it as a `devDependency` using the `--save-dev`
parameter, or to install it globally, you can use the `-g` parameter. For
other options see
[`npm`'s documentation](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/install).

And then activate it via the [`.sonarwhalrc`][sonarwhalrc]
configuration file:

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "parsers": [...],
    "rules": {
        "html-checker": "error"
    },
    ...
}
```

## What does the rule check?

According to the Nu Html checker [documentation][nu html checker docs],
the positive cases contain two sections:

* Markup cases that are potential problems for accessibility,
  usability, interoperability, security, or maintainability—or because
  they can result in poor performance, or that might cause your scripts
  to fail in ways that are hard to troubleshoot.

* Markup cases that are defined as errors because they can cause you
  to run into potential problems in HTML parsing and error-handling
  behavior—so that, say, you’d end up with some unintuitive, unexpected
  result in the DOM.

For explanation behind those requirements, please checkout:

* [rationale for syntax-level errors](https://www.w3.org/TR/html/introduction.html#syntax-errors)
* [rationale for restrictions on content models and on attribute values](https://www.w3.org/TR/html/introduction.html#restrictions-on-content-models-and-on-attribute-values)

## Can the rule be configured?

By default only the first occurance of each error/warning is reported
when validating the markup. However, you can configure the rule to view
the complete list.

The following rule configuration in the [`.sonarwhalrc`][sonarwhalrc]
file will enable the full-list view of errors/warnings reported by the
HTML checker:

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "rules": {
        "html-checker": ["error", {
            "details": true
        }],
        ...
    },
    ...
}
```

You can ignore certain error/warning by setting the `ignore` option
for the `html-checker` rule. You can either pass in a string or an
array that contains all the messages to be ignored.

E.g. The following configuration will ignore the errors/warnings with
the message of `Invalid attribute`:

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "rules": {
        "html-checker": ["error", {
            "ignore": "Invalid attribute"
        }],
        ...
    },
    ...
}
```

Alternative, you can pass in an array if you have more than one type
of messages to ignore:

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "rules": {
        "html-checker": ["error", {
            "ignore": ["Invalid attribute", "Invalid tag"]
        }],
        ...
    },
    ...
}
```

You can also override the default validator by passing in the endpoint
of an alternative validator. However, you need to make sure that this
alternative validator exposes the same REST interface as the default one.

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "rules": {
        "html-checker": ["error", {
            "validator": "https://html5.validator.nu"
        }],
        ...
    },
    ...
}
```

## Further Reading

* [Why Validate Using the Nu Html Checker?][nu html checker docs]
* [The Nu Html Checker Wiki](https://github.com/validator/validator/wiki)

<!-- Link labels: -->

[html-validator]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/html-validator
[html5 validator]: https://html5.validator.nu
[nu html checker docs]: https://validator.w3.org/nu/about.html
[nu html checker]: https://validator.github.io/validator/
[sonarwhalrc]: https://sonarwhal.com/docs/user-guide/further-configuration/sonarwhalrc-formats/
[validator interface]: https://github.com/validator/validator/wiki/Service-%C2%BB-HTTP-interface
[w3 validator]: https://validator.w3.org/nu/
