packages/rule-apple-touch-icons/README.md, before:

# Require an apple touch icon (`@sonarwhal/rule-apple-touch-icons`)

`apple-touch-icons` requires that a single `180×180px` PNG
`apple-touch-icon` is used.

## Why is this important?

Since `iOS 1.1.3` Safari for iOS has supported a way for developers
to specify an image that will be used to represent the web site/app
on the homescreen. The image is known as the [touch icon][touch icons]).

The newer, standard way to do this is via the [web app manifest
file][web app manifest spec], but at this time, Safari for iOS doesn’t
support that method.

Over time as Apple released different size displays for their devices,
the requirements for the size of the touch icon have changed quite a
bit:

* `57×57px` – iPhone with @1x display and iPod Touch
* `72×72px` – iPad and iPad mini with @1x display running iOS ≤ 6
* `76×76px` – iPad and iPad mini with @1x display running iOS ≥ 7
* `114×114px` – iPhone with @2x display running iOS ≤ 6
* `120×120px` – iPhone with @2x and @3x display running iOS ≥ 7
* `144×144px` – iPad and iPad mini with @2x display running iOS ≤ 6
* `152×152px` – iPad and iPad mini with @2x display running iOS 7
* `180×180px` – iPad and iPad mini with @2x display running iOS 8+

However, declaring one `180×180px` PNG image, e.g.:

```html
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" href="apple-touch-icon.png">
```

in the `<head>` of the page is enough, and including all the different
sizes is not recommended as:

* It will increase the size of the pages with very little to no
  real benefit (most users will probably not add the site to their
  homescreens).

* Most sizes will probably never be used as iOS devices get upgraded
  pretty quickly, so [most iOS users will be on the latest 2 versions
  of iOS][app store stats], and using newer devices.

* The `180×180px` image, if needed, [will be automatically down scaled
  by Safari, and the result of the scaling is generally ok][icon
  scaling].

The only downside to using one icon is that some users will load
a larger image, while a much smaller file would have worked just
as well. But the chance of that happening decreases with every day
as users upgrade their devices and their iOS version.

Other notes:

* Not declaring the touch icon in the page, and having it in the
  root of the site is not recommended as [Apple usually changes
  what is requested by default][h5bp issue 1622].

* In older versions of Safari for iOS the [`precomposed` keyword][icon
  effects] could be used to prevent iOS from adding different visual
  effects to the touch icon (i.e. rounded corners, drop shadow,
  reflective shine). Starting with iOS 7 no special effects are applied
  to touch icons, so there is no need to use the `precomposed`
  keyword anymore.

* Safari for iOS < 4.2 [ignored the `sizes` attribute, so the order
  in which the icons were declared mattered][icon sizes]. When using
  one image there is no need to use the `sizes` attribute.

## How to use this rule?

To use it you will have to install it via `npm`:

```bash
npm install @sonarwhal/rule-apple-touch-icons
```

Note: You can make `npm` install it as a `devDependency` using the `--save-dev`
parameter, or to install it globally, you can use the `-g` parameter. For
other options see
[`npm`'s documentation](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/install).

And then activate it via the [`.sonarwhalrc`][sonarwhalrc]
configuration file:

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "parsers": [...],
    "rules": {
        "apple-touch-icons": "error"
    },
    ...
}
```

## What does the rule check?

The rule checks if a single `apple-touch-icon` declaration exists in
the `<head>`, and it:

* has `rel="apple-touch-icon"`
* the declared image is accessible (e.g.: doesn’t result in a `404`),
  a `PNG`, and its size is `180×180px`
* does not include the `sizes` attribute

### Examples that **trigger** the rule

No `apple-touch-icon` was specified:

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>example</title>
        ...

    </head>
    <body>...</body>
</html>
```

The `apple-touch-icon` is not specified in `<head>`:

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>example</title>
        ...

    </head>
    <body>
        <link rel="apple-touch-icon" href="apple-touch-icon.png">
        ...
    </body>
</html>
```

The `apple-touch-icon` has a `rel` attribute different than
`apple-touch-icon`:

```html
<link rel="apple-touch-icon-precomposed" sizes="180x180" href="apple-touch-icon-precomposed.png">
```

The `apple-touch-icon` has a `sizes` attribute:

```html
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="180x180" href="apple-touch-icon.png">
```

Multiple `apple-touch-icon`s are specified:

```html
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="57x57" href="/static/images/touch-icons/apple-touch-icon-57x57.png">
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="60x60" href="/static/images/touch-icons/apple-touch-icon-60x60.png">
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="72x72" href="/static/images/touch-icons/apple-touch-icon-72x72.png">
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="76x76" href="/static/images/touch-icons/apple-touch-icon-76x76.png">
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="114x114" href="/static/images/touch-icons/apple-touch-icon-114x114.png">
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="120x120" href="/static/images/touch-icons/apple-touch-icon-120x120.png">
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="144x144" href="/static/images/touch-icons/apple-touch-icon-144x144.png">
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="152x152" href="/static/images/touch-icons/apple-touch-icon-152x152.png">
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="180x180" href="/static/images/touch-icons/apple-touch-icon-180x180.png">
```

The `apple-touch-icon` is not accessible:

```html
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" href="apple-touch-icon.png">
```

Response for `apple-touch-icon.png`:

```text

HTTP/... 404 Not Found
...
```

```text

HTTP/... 500 Internal Server Error
...
```

The `apple-touch-icon` is not a `PNG` file:

```html
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" href="apple-touch-icon.png">
```

```bash
$ file apple-touch-icon.png

apple-touch-icon.png: JPEG image data, ...
```

The `apple-touch-icon` is not `180x180px`:

```html
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" href="apple-touch-icon.png">
```

```bash
$ file apple-touch-icon.png

apple-touch-icon.png: PNG image data, 180 x 180, ...
```

### Examples that **pass** the rule

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>example</title>
        ...
        <link rel="apple-touch-icon" href="/apple-touch-icon.png">
        ...

    </head>
    <body>...</body>
</html>
```

## Further Reading

* [Everything you always wanted to know about touch
  icons][touch icons]
* [Is there a need for multiple touch icons when one will work?][h5bp
  issue 1367]

<!-- Link labels: -->

[app store stats]: https://developer.apple.com/support/app-store/
[h5bp issue 1367]: https://github.com/h5bp/html5-boilerplate/issues/1367
[h5bp issue 1622]: https://github.com/h5bp/html5-boilerplate/pull/1622
[icon effects]: https://mathiasbynens.be/notes/touch-icons#effects
[icon scaling]: https://realfavicongenerator.net/blog/how-ios-scales-the-apple-touch-icon/
[icon sizes]: https://mathiasbynens.be/notes/touch-icons#sizes
[touch icons]: https://mathiasbynens.be/notes/touch-icons
[web app manifest spec]: https://w3c.github.io/manifest/

Commit message:

Docs: Add note about Safari not using the web app manifest icons
Fix #661

packages/rule-apple-touch-icons/README.md, after:

# Require an apple touch icon (`@sonarwhal/rule-apple-touch-icons`)

`apple-touch-icons` requires that a single `180×180px` PNG
`apple-touch-icon` is used.

## Why is this important?

Since `iOS 1.1.3` Safari for iOS has supported a way for developers
to specify an image that will be used to represent the web site/app
on the homescreen. The image is known as the [touch icon][touch icons].

Note: As of `iOS 11.1.0` Safari for iOS [supports the web app manifest
file][safari 11.1] which provides a standard, cross-browser way of
defining, among other, the icons browsers can use in various contexts
(homescreen, application menu, etc.). However, Safari ignores the icons
defined in the web app manifest and still uses the non-standard
`apple-touch-icon`.

Over time as Apple released different size displays for their devices,
the requirements for the size of the touch icon have changed quite a
bit:

* `57×57px` – iPhone with @1x display and iPod Touch
* `72×72px` – iPad and iPad mini with @1x display running iOS ≤ 6
* `76×76px` – iPad and iPad mini with @1x display running iOS ≥ 7
* `114×114px` – iPhone with @2x display running iOS ≤ 6
* `120×120px` – iPhone with @2x and @3x display running iOS ≥ 7
* `144×144px` – iPad and iPad mini with @2x display running iOS ≤ 6
* `152×152px` – iPad and iPad mini with @2x display running iOS 7
* `180×180px` – iPad and iPad mini with @2x display running iOS 8+

Declaring one `180×180px` PNG image, e.g.:

```html
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" href="apple-touch-icon.png">
```

in the `<head>` of the page is enough, and including all the different
sizes is not recommended as:

* It will increase the size of the pages with very little to no
  real benefit (most users will probably not add the site to their
  homescreens).

* Most sizes will probably never be used as iOS devices get upgraded
  pretty quickly, so [most iOS users will be on the latest 2 versions
  of iOS][app store stats], and using newer devices.

* The `180×180px` image, if needed, [will be automatically down scaled
  by Safari, and the result of the scaling is generally ok][icon
  scaling].

The only downside to using one icon is that some users will load
a larger image, while a much smaller file would have worked just
as well. But the chance of that happening decreases with every day
as users upgrade their devices and their iOS version.

Other notes:

* Not declaring the touch icon in the page, and having it in the
  root of the site is not recommended as [Apple usually changes
  what is requested by default][h5bp issue 1622].

* In older versions of Safari for iOS the [`precomposed` keyword][icon
  effects] could be used to prevent iOS from adding different visual
  effects to the touch icon (i.e. rounded corners, drop shadow,
  reflective shine). Starting with iOS 7 no special effects are applied
  to touch icons, so there is no need to use the `precomposed`
  keyword anymore.

* Safari for iOS < 4.2 [ignored the `sizes` attribute, so the order
  in which the icons were declared mattered][icon sizes]. When using
  one image there is no need to use the `sizes` attribute.

## How to use this rule?

To use it you will have to install it via `npm`:

```bash
npm install @sonarwhal/rule-apple-touch-icons
```

Note: You can make `npm` install it as a `devDependency` using the `--save-dev`
parameter, or to install it globally, you can use the `-g` parameter. For
other options see
[`npm`'s documentation](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/install).

And then activate it via the [`.sonarwhalrc`][sonarwhalrc]
configuration file:

```json
{
    "connector": {...},
    "formatters": [...],
    "parsers": [...],
    "rules": {
        "apple-touch-icons": "error"
    },
    ...
}
```

## What does the rule check?

The rule checks if a single `apple-touch-icon` declaration exists in
the `<head>`, and it:

* has `rel="apple-touch-icon"`
* the declared image is accessible (e.g.: doesn’t result in a `404`),
  a `PNG`, and its size is `180×180px`
* does not include the `sizes` attribute

### Examples that **trigger** the rule

No `apple-touch-icon` was specified:

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>example</title>
        ...

    </head>
    <body>...</body>
</html>
```

The `apple-touch-icon` is not specified in `<head>`:

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>example</title>
        ...

    </head>
    <body>
        <link rel="apple-touch-icon" href="apple-touch-icon.png">
        ...
    </body>
</html>
```

The `apple-touch-icon` has a `rel` attribute different than
`apple-touch-icon`:

```html
<link rel="apple-touch-icon-precomposed" sizes="180x180" href="apple-touch-icon-precomposed.png">
```

The `apple-touch-icon` has a `sizes` attribute:

```html
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="180x180" href="apple-touch-icon.png">
```

Multiple `apple-touch-icon`s are specified:

```html
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="57x57" href="/static/images/touch-icons/apple-touch-icon-57x57.png">
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="60x60" href="/static/images/touch-icons/apple-touch-icon-60x60.png">
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="72x72" href="/static/images/touch-icons/apple-touch-icon-72x72.png">
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="76x76" href="/static/images/touch-icons/apple-touch-icon-76x76.png">
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="114x114" href="/static/images/touch-icons/apple-touch-icon-114x114.png">
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="120x120" href="/static/images/touch-icons/apple-touch-icon-120x120.png">
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="144x144" href="/static/images/touch-icons/apple-touch-icon-144x144.png">
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="152x152" href="/static/images/touch-icons/apple-touch-icon-152x152.png">
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" sizes="180x180" href="/static/images/touch-icons/apple-touch-icon-180x180.png">
```

The `apple-touch-icon` is not accessible:

```html
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" href="apple-touch-icon.png">
```

Response for `apple-touch-icon.png`:

```text

HTTP/... 404 Not Found
...
```

```text

HTTP/... 500 Internal Server Error
...
```

The `apple-touch-icon` is not a `PNG` file:

```html
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" href="apple-touch-icon.png">
```

```bash
$ file apple-touch-icon.png

apple-touch-icon.png: JPEG image data, ...
```

The `apple-touch-icon` is not `180x180px`:

```html
<link rel="apple-touch-icon" href="apple-touch-icon.png">
```

```bash
$ file apple-touch-icon.png

apple-touch-icon.png: PNG image data, 180 x 180, ...
```

### Examples that **pass** the rule

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8">
        <title>example</title>
        ...
        <link rel="apple-touch-icon" href="/apple-touch-icon.png">
        ...

    </head>
    <body>...</body>
</html>
```

## Further Reading

* [Everything you always wanted to know about touch
  icons][touch icons]
* [Is there a need for multiple touch icons when one will work?][h5bp
  issue 1367]

<!-- Link labels: -->

[app store stats]: https://developer.apple.com/support/app-store/
[h5bp issue 1367]: https://github.com/h5bp/html5-boilerplate/issues/1367
[h5bp issue 1622]: https://github.com/h5bp/html5-boilerplate/pull/1622
[icon effects]: https://mathiasbynens.be/notes/touch-icons#effects
[icon scaling]: https://realfavicongenerator.net/blog/how-ios-scales-the-apple-touch-icon/
[icon sizes]: https://mathiasbynens.be/notes/touch-icons#sizes
[safari 11.1]: https://developer.apple.com/library/content/releasenotes/General/WhatsNewInSafari/Articles/Safari_11_1.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40014305-CH14-SW6
[touch icons]: https://mathiasbynens.be/notes/touch-icons
[web app manifest spec]: https://w3c.github.io/manifest/
