packages/hint/docs/user-guide/telemetry/index.md, before:

# Telemetry

## What are we tracking

The first time you run `webhint` we will ask you if you want to send us
`limited usage information` to help us to build a better product.

If you answer `yes`, you will grant permission to `webhint` to send the
following information:

* The configuration used.
* Missed or incompatible packages.
* When a new hint is created using `npm create hint`.
* When there is an error creating a hint using `npm create hint`.
* The configuration created using `npm create hintrc`.
* When a parser is created using `npm create parser`.
* Unhandled/Uncaught exceptions when runing `webhint`.

If you want to set up the tracking information from the command line you have
two options:

* Run `webhint` with the parameter `--tracking=on|off`.
  > E.g.: `hint http://example.com --tracking=on`
* Configure an environment variable `HINT_TRACKING` with the
  value `on` or `off`.

This is especially recommended for CI environments.

In case you are using both of them, `--tracking on|off` will have
higher priority.

If you want to see a log in your console about what information `webhint` is
tracking, you can use the parameter `--analytics-debug`.

>E.g.: `hint http://example.com --analytics-debug`

## FAQ

### Where is the data sent to?

To our Application Insights account.

### Is it sent over HTTP

Yes.

### Is it anonymous?

Yes. We don't store any information related to the user (we don't have users)
or url analyzed.

### Who has access to it?

The webhint Core team.

Commit message:

Fix: Change when we ask for telemetry

packages/hint/docs/user-guide/telemetry/index.md, after:

# Telemetry

## What are we tracking

At the end of the second time you run `webhint` we will ask you if you want to
send us `limited usage information` to help us to build a better product.

![Example output for the telemetry question](images/telemetryquestion.jpg)

If you answer `yes`, you will grant permission to `webhint` to send the
following information:

* The configuration used.
* Missed or incompatible packages.
* When a new hint is created using `npm create hint`.
* When there is an error creating a hint using `npm create hint`.
* The configuration created using `npm create hintrc`.
* When a parser is created using `npm create parser`.
* Unhandled/Uncaught exceptions when runing `webhint`.

If you want to set up the tracking information from the command line you have
two options:

* Run `webhint` with the parameter `--tracking=on|off`.
  > E.g.: `hint http://example.com --tracking=on`
* Configure an environment variable `HINT_TRACKING` with the
  value `on` or `off`.

In a CI environment you need to use one of these two options. If not, you will
see this message:

![Example output for the telemetry message](images/telemetrycimessage.jpg)

In case you are using both of them, `--tracking on|off` will have
higher priority.

If you want to see a log in your console about what information `webhint` is
tracking, you can use the parameter `--analytics-debug`.

>E.g.: `hint http://example.com --analytics-debug`

## FAQ

* Where is the data sent to?

  To our Application Insights account.

* Is it sent over HTTP

  Yes.

* Is it anonymous?

  Yes. We don't store any information related to the user (we don't have users)
or analyzed URLs.

* Who has access to it?

  The [webhint Core team](https://github.com/orgs/webhintio/teams/core).
